# TKINTER_PYTHON --> **PREPROCESSING / TEXT CLEANSING:**

Text cleansing process is to clean the extracted text and preprocessing
module ensures that data is ready for analysis process. As in
literature, different preprocessing techniques can be applied to this
step. After applying these preprocessing techniques, most interesting terms
can be found from the data. In Promine, following preprocessing methods
are involved in text cleaning.

## **Tokenization:** 

First, tokenization is applied to the data and converts a stream of
characters into streams of words, which are our processing unit.

## **Stop Words Filtering:**

To reduce the dimensionality of tokenized data, stop word filter is
applied. In this process most frequent but unimportant words are removed
from the data.
 

## **Lemmaztization:**

Lemmatization is the process of grouping together the different
inflected forms of a word so they can be analysed as a single item.
Lemmatization is similar to stemming but it brings context to the words.
So it links words with similar meaning to one word.Text preprocessing
includes both Stemming as well as Lemmatization. Many times people find
these two terms confusing. Some treat these two as same. Actually,
lemmatization is preferred over Stemming because lemmatization does
morphological analysis of the words.

## **TDIDF:**

This measures the frequency of a word in a document. In information
retrieval, **tf**–**idf** or **TFIDF**, short for term frequency–inverse
document frequency, is a numerical statistic that is intended to reflect
how important a word is to a document in a collection or corpus. We have
calculated it by using built-in functions in python.

## **WordNet:**

At the end of preprocessing step, a list of keywords is created. This
list of words came from a file that is generated by a process model.
Single file cannot provide enough information for generating knowledge
elements that we need for domain specific ontology. For every keyword,
we get a set of synonyms from WordNet and generate a list of words of
that keyword

### **ABOUT SCREEN**

![](media/image1.png)

### **TEXT ANALYSIS SCREEN**

![](media/image2.png)

### **PROCESSING CORPUS SCREEN**

![](media/image3.png)

### **WORKING ON TEXT ANALYSIS PHASE**


**Open Directory Clicked**

![](media/image4.png)


**While loading file:**

![](media/image5.png)


**After file loaded:**

![](media/image6.png)


**Applied Tokenization**

![](media/image7.png)


**Stopword Removal applied**

![](media/image8.png)


**Applied POS TAGGER:**

![](media/image9.png)


**After applied Lemmatization**

![](media/image10.png)


**WordNet Applied**

![](media/image11.png)


**Applied TD/IDF**

![](media/image12.png)


**Applied Clear Text:**

![](media/image13.png)


**Applied RESET:**

![](media/image14.png)


**Do validation when there is no item in Analysis textarea:**

![](media/image15.png)


## **Working on processing Corpus**


**Selecting Corpus File:**

![](media/image16.png)


**Loading File for corpus:**

![](media/image17.png)


**File Loaded in Text Area for Corpus Generation:**

![](media/image18.png)


**File Saved In Corpus:**

![](media/image19.png)


**Corpus File Validation if file is already exist:**

![](media/image20.png)


**Corpus Files in Explorer:**

![](media/image21.png)


